# Overview

| Developed by | SCB 10X |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type | Quality |
| Blog |  |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

## Description

### Intended use
Validate that an LLM-generated text is in the expected language. If the text is not in the expected language, the validator will attempt to translate it to the expected language.

Use `fast-langdetect` library to detect the language of the input text,
and `iso-language-codes` library to get the language names from the ISO codes.

Utilize Meta's `facebook/nllb-200-distilled-600M` translation model (available on Huggingface) to translate the text from the detected language to the expected language.

- Primary intended uses: This validator is useful when you’re using multiple languages in an LLM application.
- Out-of-scope use cases: N/A

### Requirements

* Dependencies:
	- guardrails-ai>=0.4.0
    - fast_langdetect
    - iso_language_codes
    - transformers HuggingFace library
    - facebook/nllb-200-distilled-600M translation model

* Foundation model access keys:
	- HuggingFace

## Installation

```bash
$ guardrails hub install hub://scb-10x/correct_language

```
## Usage Examples

### Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import CorrectLanguage
from guardrails import Guard

# Setup Guard
guard = Guard().use(
    CorrectLanguage(expected_language_iso="en", threshold=0.75)
)

guard.validate("Thank you")  # Validator passes
guard.validate("Danke")  # Validator fails
```

# API Reference

**`__init__(self, on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>
Initializes a new instance of the ValidatorTemplate class.

**Parameters**
- **`expected_language_iso`** *(str)*: The ISO 639-1 code of the expected language. Defaults to "en".
- **`threshold`** *(float)*: The minimum confidence score required to accept the detected language.
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable)*: The policy to enact when a validator fails.  If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.
</ul>
<br/>

**`validate(self, value, metadata) -> ValidationResult`**
<ul>
Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters**
- **`value`** *(Any)*: The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict)*: A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. No additional metadata keys are needed for this validator.
</ul>

